So let's solve the problem with the help of Shadow Dom.
First I will create the element using create element method and then I will add it to the shadow dom.
I will say const.
Each one is equal to document dot.
Create element.
And I'll say one inside the parentheses.
And instead of this object, I will say each one.
Let me also remove the electron from this place.
Now the H1 element is created.
Next I will attach the component to the shadow dom using this dot attach shadow.
In the brackets we need to pass an object literal mode colon in the single coats.
I'll say open.
You can have open or close as options.
Open means the current page can access the shadow dom via JavaScript.
For example, element dot shadow root will return the dom, but if you give close instead of open,
then it will return null.
Anyway.
So now the component is attached with the shadow dom.
Now let's add the H1 element to it.
I will say this.
Dot shadow root dot append child.
The object which we have created is the H1.
And now you can see that the header section and product component, they both have different colors.
So this is the solution.
We applied using the shadow dom.
Because the shadow dom is activated, we are able to have different scope for the web component.
Now let me switch to Chrome and let's open the developer tool.
If you are using Chrome, you have to make sure that you go to the settings in the preferences.
Make sure that you have this option.
Show user agent shadow dom is checked.
Now let's go to the elements in the developer tool.
Let me expand.
These components.
And you see here the component elements are part of Shadow Dom.
It sees the shadow root, which has the elements of the component.
So this means I did show you the component to lectures back.
But in reality, unless this shadow dom is not attached, you cannot say that it's your proper web component.
In fact, when you use any third party component, it will certainly have shadow dom.
Let me quickly go to the code and let me add an input here.
I'll say input type is equal to range.
Let me close it.
Let's save and go back to the browser and refresh.
If you click on the developer tool, you can see that it also has its own shadow dom because this element
has some extra user interface.
So it's a kind of web component or a component which has its own dom.
Let me remove the input now.
And we are back to the original output.
So with the help of Shadow Dom, we made sure that we have the DOM itself in a separate scope and the
shadow dom as a separate scope for the web component.
Now let's talk about related questions.
The question is, what is Shadow Dom?
Explain the need for it.
So as discussed.
Shadow Dom is its own scope for a web component in the DOM because we did see the problem we faced when
we did not have Shadow Dom and that exactly is the need that when you want to have encapsulation for
your web component so that it can have its own CSS, its own settings, which does not clash with the
original pages.
Dom And that's the reason why we use the shadow Dom.
The second question is how do you add a component to a shadow?
Dom.
So it's about this line, this dot attach shadow which attaches the component to the DOM.
When you have to add elements of the web component to the shadow dom, you are going to use the shadow
root.